WebCrypto X25519 algorithm docs (#35441)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/subtlecrypto/generatekey/index.md

{{EmbedLiveSample("Ed25519", "100%", "240px")}}

### X25519 key generation

This code generates an X25519 public and private key pair that can be used in {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.deriveKey()")}} to create a shared key, or in {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.deriveBits()")}} to create a shared secret.

```html hidden
<input id="run-button" type="button" value="Run" />
<pre id="log">Click "Run" button</pre>
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 170px;
  white-space: pre-wrap; /* wrap pre blocks */
  overflow-wrap: break-word; /* break on words */
  overflow-y: auto;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}
```

#### JavaScript

Code for generating a key pair using the `X25519` algorithm and logging the information in each key is shown below.
Note that the code is run in a `try..catch` block because not all browsers support this algorithm.

The JavaScript first gets the `#run-button` and `#log` {{HTMLElement("input")}} elements, then adds a listener for the `click` event on the button.

> The event handler clears the log and runs the other operations passing the content of the `<input>` element.

Reviewer: "passing the content of the `<input>` element" still seems wrong?

```suggestion
The event handler clears the log, generates an X25519 key pair, and logs some of its properties.
```

?

Author: Yeah, that is much better.

{{EmbedLiveSample("Ed25519", "100%", "240px")}}

### X25519 key generation

This code generates an X25519 public and private key pair that can be used in {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.deriveKey()")}} to create a shared key, or in {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.deriveBits()")}} to create a shared secret.

> The code is almost exactly the same as that for the Ed25519 algorithm in the previous section, except that it uses a different algorithm name, and the allowed `keyUsages` are different.

Reviewer: Same comment as before about referring to the previous example. Just a suggestion though.

Author: It is reasonable - you can create "too much context"

> This code generates an X25519 public and private key pair that can be used in {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.deriveKey()")}} to create a shared key, or in {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.deriveBits()")}} to create a shared secret.
> 
> The code is almost exactly the same as that for the Ed25519 algorithm in the previous section, except that it uses a different algorithm name, and the allowed `keyUsages` are different.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
This code generates an X25519 public and private key pair that can be used in {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.deriveKey()")}} to create a shared key, or in {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.deriveBits()")}} to create a shared secret.

```

```html hidden
<input id="run-button" type="button" value="Run" />
<pre id="log">Click "Run" button</pre>
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 170px;
  white-space: pre-wrap; /* wrap pre blocks */
  overflow-wrap: break-word; /* break on words */
  overflow-y: auto;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}
```

#### JavaScript

Code for generating a key pair using the `X25519` algorithm and logging the information in each key is shown below.
Note that the code is run in a `try..catch` block because not all browsers support this algorithm.

The JavaScript first gets the `#sign-button` and `#message` {{HTMLElement("input")}} elements, then adds a listener for the `click` event on the button.

> The event handler clears the log and runs the other operations passing the content of the `<input>` element.

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to be correct. Copy/paste error?

Author: Good catch.
```suggestion
The JavaScript first gets the `#run-button` and `#log` {{HTMLElement("input")}} elements, then adds a listener for the `click` event on the button.
The event handler clears the log and runs the other operations passing the content of the `<input>` element.
```
